# Future work
In this document we compile recommendations and future implementations for RapidKrill:

## Echosounder connection protocol
The connection to the echosounder PC is currently done through a Windows share, which needs to be done manually before running the listening routine. RapidKrill is not able to reconnect in case the connection is interrupted due to external reasons (e.g., a temporary disconnection of the ethernet cable or a reboot of the echosounder PC). In the future, this connection must be implemented inside `listen.py`. In case the connection fails, `listen.py` will reconnect again.

## GUI
RapidKrill results are displayed in the console and stored as a CSV file in the log directory. Future versions of RapidKrill should include a GUI with a table and a map showing updated results. This will allow the results to be seen in real-time by the ship's crew. The touchscreen could allow RapidKrill to be controlled by the crew. E.g., if we provide a status display and a restart button in the GUI, the crew could easily restart the listening routine in case of failure.

## Further testing
RapidKrill has been tested on two ships and with a limited dataset but further testing is required. We have implemented some exception handling but this is likely to need further improvement. We encourage collaborators to try our software on as many vessels as possible and report technical problems using GitHub Issues.  

## RAW reading
We would like to extend the reading capabilities to support more instruments and data formats (e.g. EK80).

## GPS reading
`read.nmea` currently looks for GGA, GLL and RMC GPS fixes and pick the first one available (sorted alphabetically) to compute distance and vessel speed. It doesn't look at data quality. In the future more GPS fixes must be added, and data quality must be checked to select the best GPS data available. It would be also useful to enable the user to pick the preferred GPS fixes to read.

## Desktop
`Desktop.py` currently process all raw files in a specified directory sorted by file name (alphabetically and by time stamp assuming a default filename generated by ER60 software). In the future, `desktop.py` should use the file lists contained in transects.toml so that it can perform process data across different cruise directories and set transect-specific environmental and calibration parameters. 

## Installation
Improve the software intallation procedures and instructions. E.g, distributing RapidKrill ISO files.

## Communications
Provide other methods for sending summary data to the land. E.g., Iridium short burst data satellite communications for moorings. 
